Allow selecting options by passing current values (#2616)
alphagov/govuk-frontend: CHANGELOG.md

## Unreleased

### New features

#### Check checkboxes by using the `values` Nunjucks option

When using the `govukCheckboxes` Nunjucks macro, you can now use the `values` option to indicate which checkboxes should be checked when the page loads.

For example, `value: ['red', 'blue']` would check any checkboxes that have a `value` of 'red' or 'blue'.

This is an alternative to setting the boolean `checked` option on each individual checkbox.

This change was introduced in [pull request #2616: Allow selecting options by passing current values](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/pull/2616).

#### Check a radio button by using the `value` Nunjucks option

> When using the `govukRadios` Nunjucks macro you can now use `value` option to indicate which radio should be checked when the page loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `govukRadios` Nunjucks macro, you can now use the `value` option to indicate which radio should be checked when the page loads.
```

For example, `value: 'red'` would check the radio that has a `value` of 'red'.

This is an alternative to setting the boolean `checked` option on each individual radio.

This change was introduced in [pull request #2616: Allow selecting options by passing current values](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/pull/2616).

#### Select an option in a select by using the `value` Nunjucks option

> When using the `govukSelect` Nunjucks macro you can now use `value` option to indicate which option should be selected when the page loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `govukSelect` Nunjucks macro, you can now use the `value` option to indicate which option should be selected when the page loads.
```

### New features

> #### Check checkboxes by using the `checkedValues` option

Author: I've opted to document this as three separate (but very similar) features because the words (checked / selected) and the options (`checkedValues` / `checkedValue` / `selectedValue`) are different in each case and trying to write it is a single feature got messy quickly.

Reviewer: Makes sense!

Can see from line 35 that 'option' is a bit of a problem term in this content...

Wonder could we replace 'option' with 'parameter' throughout, whenever we refer to `checkedValues`, etc.? Or would we not want to do that, because of the PR a few days ago that made 'option' the word we use for these things?

> When using the Checkboxes nunjucks macro you can now use `checkedValues` option to indicate which checkboxes should be checked when the page loads.

Author: I think 'include' is too passive in this instance – the user can't just add the code `checkedValues` to the macro call and it'd work, they need to also pass a value as well. Does that make sense?

> When using the Checkboxes nunjucks macro you can now use `checkedValues` option to indicate which checkboxes should be checked when the page loads.

Reviewer: It does! Thanks. Let's leave as is.

> For example, this would check the checkboxes that have the values 'foo' and 'bar':

Author: Possibly not. I always struggle to come up with neat, simple and self-contained examples that don't rely on nonsense placeholder values… will have a think!

> For example, this would check the checkboxes that have the values 'foo' and 'bar':

Author: I've replaced 'foo' and 'bar' with 'red' and 'blue' so although the examples are still a little contrived they're at least terms that a user should be familiar with!

> For example, this would check the checkboxes that have the values 'foo' and 'bar':

Author: Are you happy with the examples using red, green and blue?

```
checkedValues: ['foo', 'bar']

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe this suggestion is overkill considering it would just be for one update, _but..._could we add a full example, plus the existing content, to a Google Doc, then ask a few frontend users for their thoughts?

> This is an alternative to setting the `checked` option on each individual checkbox item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this kind of code so you do not have to set the `checked` parameter on each individual checkbox item.
```
Is the word 'item' adding anything here?

Author: I've removed the word item, but have kept the overall sentence structure as I think the suggested wording pushes users too much towards using `values` when both approaches are equally valid. Very happy to talk this one through though if we do want to change it.

This change was introduced in [pull request #2616: Allow selecting options by passing current values](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/pull/2616).

#### Check a radio button by using the `checkedValue` option

> When using the Radios nunjucks macro you can now use `checkedValue` option to indicate which radio should be checked when the page loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the Nunjucks macro for radios, you can now use the `checkedValue` parameter to indicate which radio should be checked when the page loads.
```

> For example, this would check the radio that has the values 'foo':

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this code would check the radio that has the value 'foo':
```

Author: I've tweaked these slightly to put the code inline, like:

> For example, `value: 'red'` would check the radio that has a `value` of 'red'.

```
checkedValue: 'foo'
```

> This is an alternative to setting the `checked` option on each individual radio item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this kind of code so you do not have to set the `checked` parameter on each individual radio item.
```
Do we have to keep 'item'?

This change was introduced in [pull request #2616: Allow selecting options by passing current values](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/pull/2616).

> #### Select an option in a Select by using the `selectedValue` option

Author: THIS IS A NIGHTMARE. Two of these words have two different meanings and we use both meanings in the same heading.

**Select** (verb) an **option** (an `<option>` HTML element within a `<select>`) in a **Select** (component name / HTML element name) using the `selectedValue` **option** (a 'Nunjucks macro option')

Suggestions welcome.

Reviewer: Tricky one alright! Ok, first pass:

> Choose an option in a select component by using the `selectedValue` parameter

Author: It might be to save the user time, or more likely it might be because the user has gone back to change an answer they previously gave.

For example, if a user was in the middle of a transaction and went 'back' to a previous page that used a select, the answer they previously gave should be selected when the page loads.

Likewise, if the user was [checking their answers](https://design-system.service.gov.uk/patterns/check-answers/) and decided to change an answer they previously gave, when they click change the page that loads should pre-select the answer that they'd previously given.

> When using the Select nunjucks macro you can now use `selectedValue` option to indicate which option should be selected when the page loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the Nunjucks macro for the select component, you can now use the `selectedValue` parameter to indicate which option should be selected when the page loads.
```

For example, this would select the option that has the value 'foo':

```
selectedValue: 'foo'
```

> This is an alternative to setting the `select` option on each individual option item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this kind of code so you do not have to set the `select` parameter on each individual option item.
```
Could we remove the word 'item', or does it add something that 'individual option' doesn't?
